packages/eslint-plugin-sweepit/docs/rules/no-boolean-capability-props.md, before:

# Disallow boolean capability props (`no-boolean-capability-props`)

Disallow boolean component props that do not have an associated control handler.

## Why

Capability booleans turn one component into many hidden variants.
Each additional boolean doubles possible states, which quickly creates fragile conditional branches and unmaintainable APIs.
Prefer event-driven APIs, controlled contracts, or explicit compound composition where each variant is clear in JSX.

## Rule Details

- **Target**: TypeScript `*Props` declarations (`interface` and object `type` members).
- **Reported**: Boolean-like props without an associated handler in the same contract.
- **Associated handlers**: any handler prop starting with `on{PropName}` (for example `open` -> `onOpenChange` or `onOpenToggle`).
- **Boolean-like** includes `boolean`, `true | false`, and unions containing boolean.

## Options

```json
{
  "ignore": ["asChild"],
  "ignoreNativeBooleanProps": true
}
```

- `ignore` (`string[]`): prop names to skip.
- `ignoreNativeBooleanProps` (`boolean`): skip native HTML/React boolean attributes (for example `disabled`, `checked`, `required`, `multiple`).

## Examples

### Incorrect

```tsx
interface DialogProps {
  open: boolean;
  isEditing: boolean;
  onOpenChange: (open: boolean) => void;
}
```

### Correct

```tsx
interface DialogProps {
  open: boolean;
  onOpenChange: (open: boolean) => void;
}

interface EditorProps {
  isEditing: boolean;
  onIsEditingChange: (next: boolean) => void;
}
```

## How To Fix

1. Add a matching handler to each boolean state prop (for example `open` + `onOpenChange`, where handler names start with `on{PropName}`).
2. If boolean flags are only toggling variants, split them into explicit composed variants.
3. Keep state transitions explicit through events rather than hidden conditional branches.
4. AI agents: if a boolean has no valid control handler, add one or extract separate composed variants instead of adding more flags.

Commit message:

Clarify no-boolean-capability-props fix guidance (#29)
* Clarify no-boolean-capability-props fix safety guidance.

Document that fixes must preserve behavior, prefer composition first, and use explicit variant props only as a fallback.

Made-with: Cursor

* Refine no-boolean-capability-props error message.

Simplify the lint message to focus on controlled handlers while keeping composition and explicit variants in the suggested fix path.

Made-with: Cursor

packages/eslint-plugin-sweepit/docs/rules/no-boolean-capability-props.md, after:

# Disallow boolean capability props (`no-boolean-capability-props`)

Disallow boolean component props that do not have an associated control handler.

## Why

Capability booleans turn one component into many hidden variants.
Each additional boolean doubles possible states, which quickly creates fragile conditional branches and unmaintainable APIs.
Prefer event-driven APIs, controlled contracts, or explicit compound composition where each variant is clear in JSX.

## Rule Details

- **Target**: TypeScript `*Props` declarations (`interface` and object `type` members).
- **Reported**: Boolean-like props without an associated handler in the same contract.
- **Associated handlers**: any handler prop starting with `on{PropName}` (for example `open` -> `onOpenChange` or `onOpenToggle`).
- **Boolean-like** includes `boolean`, `true | false`, and unions containing boolean.

## Options

```json
{
  "ignore": ["asChild"],
  "ignoreNativeBooleanProps": true
}
```

- `ignore` (`string[]`): prop names to skip.
- `ignoreNativeBooleanProps` (`boolean`): skip native HTML/React boolean attributes (for example `disabled`, `checked`, `required`, `multiple`).

## Examples

### Incorrect

```tsx
interface DialogProps {
  open: boolean;
  isEditing: boolean;
  onOpenChange: (open: boolean) => void;
}
```

### Correct

```tsx
interface DialogProps {
  open: boolean;
  onOpenChange: (open: boolean) => void;
}

interface EditorProps {
  isEditing: boolean;
  onIsEditingChange: (next: boolean) => void;
}
```

## How To Fix

1. Add a matching handler to each boolean state prop (for example `open` + `onOpenChange`, where handler names start with `on{PropName}`).
2. If a boolean only toggles presentation variants, prefer explicit compound composition first (for example separate parts or composed branches in JSX).
3. If composition is not practical, replace the boolean with an explicit variant prop (for example `variant?: "loud" | "subtle"`).
4. Keep state transitions explicit through events rather than hidden conditional branches.

## Fix Safety (Required)

- Do not remove existing functionality to satisfy this rule.
- Preserve the same user-facing behaviors when refactoring boolean props.
- If behavior parity cannot be maintained with composition or a variant prop, stop and request human approval before changing the API.
